Blog: feature flags best practices (#4978)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/feature-flag-best-practices.md

---

> date: 2023-01-03

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-01-05
```

> title: Master feature flags: best practice, tips and examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Master Feature Flags: Best practice, tips and examples
```

---
date: 2023-01-03

> title: 8 best practices for feature flags and toggles

Reviewer: I'm trying to think of ways to make this title standout... the top result in Google is also "8 feature flag best practices" so I think it'll look too similar to get any clicks. Open to suggestions on this one!

Author: Some ideas:
- Best practices for feature flag fluency
- Best practices for feature flag mastery
- The definitive guide to feature flag best practices
- How to follow feature flag best practices

Reviewer: Getting warmer...

- Master Feature Flags: Best practice, tips and examples
- Feature Flags 101: Best practices, tips and examples

I think a kicker works well here. Thoughts or twists on either of these?

Author: I do like fluency because then you get the alliteration. So maybe "Feature flag fluency: Best practice, tips, and examples" ? Master is fine if not. 

I don't think this is a _101_ type post.

Reviewer: I think master then. It's ok to use title case for the kicker, btw. Think it works better visually.

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/green-blog-image.jpg
featuredImageType: full
categories: ["Guides", "Using PostHog"]
---

> Feature flags (also known as feature toggles) enable teams to make changes to their applications quickly and safely. They check whether a piece of code should be active or not and a simple UI to create and manage those checks. This enables fast feature testing, rollout, and rollback.
> 
> There are several best practices for implementing feature flags correctly. This post goes over 8 of them, from using local evaluation to deciding when to remove feature flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feature flags, aka feature toggles, are awesome. Want to test a new feature on your beta test group? Use a feature flag. Want to test multiple variants of a new UX? Use a feature flag? Need a kill switch to prevent performance problems? Yup, feature flag. We could go on, but suffice it to say the benefits of feature flags are numerous.
Here we're exploring feature flag best practices, such as deciding when to remove them and naming conventions. Some are specific to using [feature flags in PostHog](https://github.com/product/feature-flags), but the principles apply no matter what [feature flag tool](https://github.com/blog/best-open-source-feature-flag-tools) you use.
```

Reviewer: Bit of a punch up on the intro. Feel free to tweak.

## 4. Accurately identify users

Because feature flags evaluate based on the distinct ID of the user, having accurate identification is critical. Not knowing your user limits the flags you can show to them. If you identify users accurately, you can better target your feature flags to them.

Having at least a “sticky” ID (like a cookie, which is the default) ensures the user gets a consistent flag evaluation in your product. Without identification, PostHog wouldn’t know what feature flags to show them. We default to not showing flags, but if the distinct ID changes often, we could show multiple variants to the same user.

Accurate identification includes setting up group analytics and person properties if you use them to rollout feature flags. Users must be a part of groups or have a property before PostHog can decide to show them a feature flag relying on that group or property. 

## 5. Name your feature flags well

> Here is some advice on naming your feature flags, they should:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is some practical advice on naming your feature flags to avoid confusion. None of these are laws and you can create your own conventions, but these are the ones we follow:
```

- Be searchable in your code. If they are too similar to other code, you can’t find them easily or people will mistake their functionality.

- Get saved as constants in a single file. PostHog saves our feature flags as [constants](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/frontend/src/lib/constants.tsx) that get accessed to maintain consistency and legibility.

- Use positive wording. PostHog does the same. Our library checks feature flags by calling `isFeatureEnabled`. Using “negative” wording, such as `disable-feature`, can be confusing.

- Use name “types” if you have a large number of flags. This helps organize them and makes their purpose clear. Types might include experiments, releases, and permissions. For example, instead of `new-billing`, they would be `new-billing-experiment` or `new-billing-release`.

None of these are laws, you can do what you want with the naming of feature flags. They are suggestions. A lot of this advice is relatively standard for naming variables in software development, feel free to take all their advice too.

## 6. Minimize or group changes behind them

> A best practice is having a single feature flag control a single component, function, method, class, or other pieces of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's best to use a single feature flag control a single component, function, method, class, or other pieces of code.
```

Feature flags are usually checked at the person level, but there are other ways. One useful and under-utilized way is rolling out based on groups.

For example, a customer complains about an issue with your product. You create a fix for them but aren’t sure it will work for everyone. You can roll it out behind a feature flag and set the distribution to members of that company.

![Group release](../images/blog/feature-flags-best-practices/group-release.png)

Enabling flags for specific groups allows the experience to be consistent for those groups. Members of an organization aren’t seeing different UIs or getting different experiences. They also act as a “permission” to access those changes.

This enables you to coordinate and communicate with those groups while rolling out features. This can be especially useful for massive features, organizations, and integrations. It allows you to beta test functionality, do [canary releases](/tutorials/canary-release), and deal with issues before a larger rollout.

> **💡 PostHog Tip:** Be sure to identify users as part of that group using [group analytics](/manual/group-analytics).

## 8. Remove flags at the right time

> 
> Feature flags have a cost. Like any piece of code, they have maintenance associated with them. Although they are easy to create and add, figuring out when to remove them can be challenging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think this para is necessary
